最後のチュートリアルへようこそ！ディスク不足に悩まされないようにしましょう。リポジトリをオンラインのまま拡張して、削除した領域をプールに返却し、その両方を自動化する方法を学びます。
仕組みはこうです。すべてのリポジトリは、共有データストアプール内の1つのファイルです。コンテナを動かしたまま、リポジトリはオンラインで拡張できます。ただし、リポジトリ内のデータを削除しても、それだけでは領域は解放されません。ブロックをプールに返却するのがTrimの役割です。そして、ポリシーがその両方を自動化してくれます。
Fill the repository most of the way and
check:
the filesystem is getting tight.
ほぼ満杯です。拡張の時間です。
Grow it online.
The encrypted container and the filesystem expand
while the containers keep running — zero
downtime,
zero unmount.
4ギガバイトになりました。再起動はゼロです。
Verify from inside:
same volume,
double the room.
アプリは気づきませんでした。
Now the other direction.
Delete the big file — but watch:
the pool does not get the space back
yet.
Deleted blocks stay reserved inside the image.
repository内では解放されましたが、イメージがまだ保持しています。
Trim hands those blocks back to the
datastore pool,
online.
This is the step most setups forget.
回収完了。プールがまた息を吹き返しました。
Now stop doing this by hand.
The policy enables automatic growth up to
a ceiling you choose,
plus scheduled trims.
ポリシーが保存されました。あとはマシンに任せます。
Read it back:
auto-grow on,
ceiling at eight gigabytes,
trim on a schedule.
一度設定すれば、安心して忘れられます。
And the view that ties it
together:
storage health shows every repo's usage,
the pool,
and how much copy-on-write sharing is
saving you.
1つの画面で、使用量、節約量、成長の余地がわかります。
これでシリーズは完結です！インストールからストレージの自動管理まで、18本のチュートリアルでした。サーバーはまたあなたのものになりました。ご視聴ありがとうございました！